Phases/program-faqs.md, before:

# Learning Model FAQs

#### How long should it take a learner to complete a phase?

Learners should aim to move through the beginning of the program as quickly as possible without compromising their learning. It should take a learner six \(6\) weeks, including phase interview, to complete any of the first three phases. Eight \(8\) weeks is the maximum amount of time a learner can spend in phases 1, 2 or 3, respectively. We strongly recommend requesting a Phase Interview as soon as a learner feels ready. See Phase Interviews for more information.

#### How do I know which phase I’m in?

Upon enrollment, all learners begin in Phase 1, also referred to as Phase 1, Programming Fundamentals. Learners then interview into each phase via Phase Interviews. You can see your phase placement in your Echo learner profile.

#### Is someone responsible for ‘running’ each phase?

An SEP is assigned to each phase. Foundations 1 and 2 also have assigned pro-coaches.

#### How do learners advance from one phase to another?

The Guild requires learners to participate in a coding challenge and technical comprehension interview to advance from one phase to another. Together, we call the coding challenge and technical comprehension interview, a Phase Interview. See [Phase Interviews](//Phases/Interviews/README.md) section for more details.

#### Can learners return to a previous phase after they’ve moved on?

No. If a learner successfully interviews into the next phase, they cannot return to a previous phase.

#### If I interview out of my phase early, can I stay for the rest of the weeks I have in that phase and keep learning?

We love learning, you know that. But no, you cannot stay in a phase you've successfully interviewed out of simply because you interviewed out prior to your 8th week in the phase. We strongly encourage you to move as quickly as you can through the first three phases - without compromising your learning - so you can spend more time in Phases 4 and 5. 

#### Are unused weeks in a phase rolled over if a learner interviews out of a phase early?

No, not exactly. If a learner moves into phases 2, 3, or 4 early, the weeks they did not spend in the previous phase may be added to their time in the Apprenticeship and Career Prep phases, rather than added to the phase they’re entering. Ultimately, you will still have up to 40 weeks in the program, however, the distribution of weeks per phase depends upon whether a learner uses 8 full weeks to advance through each of the first three phases \(totaling 24 weeks\).

#### What counts as a successful Phase Interview?

Learners who complete, understand, and clearly explain 80% or more of the content covered in their phase interview will be accepted into the phase for which they’re interviewing.

#### What am I expected to be able to explain in a comprehension interview?

In your phase interview the interviewer is going to try and get a sense of your comprehension of the code you submitted, so they will be asking you to explain parts of it. You won't be expected to explain abstract technical ideas that are unrelated to your code, but you *will* be expected to be able to explain the code you wrote and how it works on a basic level.

Here's a non-technical analogy.

Imagine you were learning to speak a foreign language instead of Javascript, say Romanian. We give you a take home exam and one of the questions is,

> “How do you say, ‘I’m very hungry’ in Romanian?”

and you write down the correct answer:

> “Mi-e foarte foame.”

In the comprehension interview you wouldn't be asked the etymology of the word “foarte” or to give a primer in verb conjugation in romance languages. What you would be expected to be able to answer are questions like “What does the word ‘foarte’ mean?“. 

That’s pretty much the type of understanding we're looking for in the Phase interviews. If you submit a 10 line function you may be asked something like, “What does line 5 do?“. So you should know roughly what each line of your code does and be able to explain it.

#### How many times can a learner take a Phase Interview?

Learners may attempt a phase interview twice within the eight-week time period.

#### Will I be asked to leave the Guild if I have two unsuccessful Phase Interviews?

Yes, your membership may be terminated as a result of two unsuccessful attempts at entering a new phase.

#### How do learners access the curriculum for each phase?

Visit the curriculum repo: [https://github.com/GuildCrafts/curriculum](https://github.com/GuildCrafts/curriculum. ).

#### Are all learners required to submit a retrospective at the end of the week?

Only Learners in Phases 3 and 4 are required submit weekly retrospectives.

#### How do I get help?

You can request help in your phase channel by typing:

@phase-1-help

@phase-2-help

@phase-3-help

@phase-4-help

@phase-5-help

Commit message:

moving details from FAQ to the Phase Interview section.

Phases/program-faqs.md, after:

# Learning Model FAQs

#### How long should it take a learner to complete a phase?

Learners should aim to move through the beginning of the program as quickly as possible without compromising their learning. It should take a learner six \(6\) weeks, including phase interview, to complete any of the first three phases. Eight \(8\) weeks is the maximum amount of time a learner can spend in phases 1, 2 or 3, respectively. We strongly recommend requesting a Phase Interview as soon as a learner feels ready. See Phase Interviews for more information.

#### How do I know which phase I’m in?

Upon enrollment, all learners begin in Phase 1, also referred to as Phase 1, Programming Fundamentals. Learners then interview into each phase via Phase Interviews. You can see your phase placement in your Echo learner profile.

#### Is someone responsible for ‘running’ each phase?

An SEP is assigned to each phase. Foundations 1 and 2 also have assigned pro-coaches.

#### How do learners advance from one phase to another?

The Guild requires learners to participate in a coding challenge and technical comprehension interview to advance from one phase to another. Together, we call the coding challenge and technical comprehension interview, a Phase Interview. See [Phase Interviews](//Phases/Interviews/README.md) section for more details.

#### Can learners return to a previous phase after they’ve moved on?

No. If a learner successfully interviews into the next phase, they cannot return to a previous phase.

#### If I interview out of my phase early, can I stay for the rest of the weeks I have in that phase and keep learning?

We love learning, you know that. But no, you cannot stay in a phase you've successfully interviewed out of simply because you interviewed out prior to your 8th week in the phase. We strongly encourage you to move as quickly as you can through the first three phases - without compromising your learning - so you can spend more time in Phases 4 and 5. 

#### Are unused weeks in a phase rolled over if a learner interviews out of a phase early?

No, not exactly. If a learner moves into phases 2, 3, or 4 early, the weeks they did not spend in the previous phase may be added to their time in the Apprenticeship and Career Prep phases, rather than added to the phase they’re entering. Ultimately, you will still have up to 40 weeks in the program, however, the distribution of weeks per phase depends upon whether a learner uses 8 full weeks to advance through each of the first three phases \(totaling 24 weeks\).

#### What counts as a successful Phase Interview?

Learners who complete, understand, and clearly explain 80% or more of the content covered in their phase interview will be accepted into the phase for which they’re interviewing.

#### What am I expected to be able to explain in a comprehension interview?

In your phase interview the interviewer is going to try and get a sense of your comprehension of the code you submitted, so they will be asking you to explain parts of it. You won't be expected to explain abstract technical ideas that are unrelated to your code, but you *will* be expected to be able to explain the code you wrote and how it works on a basic level. You'll find more details [here](./Interviews/README.md#phase-interviews-have-two-parts-a-coding-challenge-and-a-technical-comprehension-interview).

#### How many times can a learner take a Phase Interview?

Learners may attempt a phase interview twice within the eight-week time period.

#### Will I be asked to leave the Guild if I have two unsuccessful Phase Interviews?

Yes, your membership may be terminated as a result of two unsuccessful attempts at entering a new phase.

#### How do learners access the curriculum for each phase?

Visit the curriculum repo: [https://github.com/GuildCrafts/curriculum](https://github.com/GuildCrafts/curriculum. ).

#### Are all learners required to submit a retrospective at the end of the week?

Only Learners in Phases 3 and 4 are required submit weekly retrospectives.

#### How do I get help?

You can request help in your phase channel by typing:

@phase-1-help

@phase-2-help

@phase-3-help

@phase-4-help

@phase-5-help
