Phases/README.md, before:

# Phases

There are 5 sequential phases that learners move through.

To start phases 2, 3, and 4, learners must pass an interview (interviews include a coding challenge). See more details in the [Interviews](./Interviews) section.

### Pacing

Each phase is designed to contain curriculum that should be able to be completed in 5 weeks, with the expectation that learners take the phase interview in their 6th week. Phases 1-3 *must* be completed within 8 weeks, so the latest a learner can take a phase interview is in week 8.

Learners may choose to complete a phase interview at any time during the phase, but, there are two rules:

1. A Phase Interview may only be attempted *twice*.

2. A learner must *complete and pass* the phase interview no later than the 8th week after they begin the phase.

### Phases

#### P1: Foundations 1

Foundations 1 is all about the fundamentals. It covers things like learning how to use the terminal, basic coding concepts, how to test code, to using basic SQL.

Here you’ll develop fundamental skills so that you can begin to take on more advanced topics and projects.

#### P2: Foundations 2

Foundations 2 delves deeper into foundational topics introduced in F1, while also introducing new material like how to create static HTML and CSS pages, build HTTP servers, and use the latest version of JavaScript to write asynchronous code.

To start Phase 2, you must pass the [Phase 2 interview](./Interviews/Phase_2.md).

#### P3: Integrated Practice

Integrated Practice gives learners a chance to synthesize and utilize skills developed in Foundations 1 & 2 in both modules and small projects that mimic real world applications and require more creative problem solving.

To start Phase 3, you must pass the [Phase 3 interview](./Interviews/Phase_3.md).

#### P4: Apprenticeship

The Apprenticeship phase introduces real-world OSS and Guild projects to which learners can contribute. This phase simulates a dev-team environment and gets learners used to working on large code-bases.

To start Phase 4, you must pass the [Phase 4 interview](./Interviews/Phase_4.md).

#### P5: Career Prep

Career prep supports learners with technical interview preparation, resume and online presence development, networking skills, and overall accountability support during the job search process.

Commit message:

Add links to phase curric

Phases/README.md, after:

# Phases

There are 5 sequential phases that learners move through.

To start phases 2, 3, and 4, learners must pass an interview (interviews include a coding challenge). See more details in the [Interviews](./Interviews) section.

### Pacing

Each phase is designed to contain curriculum that should be able to be completed in 5 weeks, with the expectation that learners take the phase interview in their 6th week. Phases 1-3 *must* be completed within 8 weeks, so the latest a learner can take a phase interview is in week 8.

Learners may choose to complete a phase interview at any time during the phase, but, there are two rules:

1. A Phase Interview may only be attempted *twice*.
2. A learner must *complete and pass* the phase interview no later than the 8th week after they begin the phase.

### Phases

Review the outline for each phase below, and follow the links to read the phase-specific curriculum. Note that the curriculum is a living system, and will be shifting and improving over time.

If you have questions or need additional phase-specific support, get in touch with the SEP or pro coach assigned to your phase.

#### P1: Foundations 1

Foundations 1 is all about the fundamentals. It covers things like learning how to use the terminal, basic coding concepts, how to test code, and using basic SQL.

Here you’ll develop fundamental skills so that you can begin to take on more advanced topics and projects.

Review the [Phase 1 curriculum][p1-curric].

#### P2: Foundations 2

Foundations 2 delves deeper into foundational topics introduced in F1, while also introducing new material like how to create static HTML and CSS pages, build HTTP servers, and use the latest version of JavaScript to write asynchronous code.

To start Phase 2, you must pass the [Phase 2 interview](./Interviews/Phase_2.md).

Review the [Phase 2 curriculum][p2-curric].

#### P3: Integrated Practice

Integrated Practice gives learners a chance to synthesize and utilize skills developed in Foundations 1 & 2 in both modules and small projects that mimic real world applications and require more creative problem solving.

To start Phase 3, you must pass the [Phase 3 interview](./Interviews/Phase_3.md).

Review the [Phase 3 curriculum][p3-curric].

#### P4: Apprenticeship

The Apprenticeship phase introduces real-world OSS and Guild projects to which learners can contribute. This phase simulates a dev-team environment and gets learners used to working on large code-bases.

To start Phase 4, you must pass the [Phase 4 interview](./Interviews/Phase_4.md).

Review the [Phase 4 curriculum][p4-curric].

#### P5: Career Prep

Career prep supports learners with technical interview preparation, resume and online presence development, networking skills, and overall accountability support during the job search process.

Review the [Phase 5 curriculum][p5-curric].


[p1-curric]: https://github.com/GuildCrafts/curriculum/tree/master/phases/1
[p2-curric]: https://github.com/GuildCrafts/curriculum/tree/master/phases/2
[p3-curric]: https://github.com/GuildCrafts/curriculum/tree/master/phases/3
[p4-curric]: https://github.com/GuildCrafts/curriculum/tree/master/phases/4
[p5-curric]: https://github.com/GuildCrafts/curriculum/tree/master/phases/5
