Phases/Interviews/README.md, before:

# Phase Interviews

Phase Interviews enable you to move from one phase to another. As mentioned in the [Pacing](/Phases/pacing.md) section, it should take you six \(6\) weeks, including phase interview, to complete any of the first three phases. Eight \(8\) weeks is the maximum amount of time you can spend in phases 1, 2 or 3, respectively. You may choose to complete a phase interview at any time during the phase, but, there are two rules:

1. A Phase Interview may only be attempted _twice_.
2. You must complete and pass the phase interview no later than the 8th week after you begin the phase.

**All Phase Interviews begin on Monday at 9am and must be submitted for evaluation by Wednesday at 12pm.**

Following submission, the evaluating SEP \(also referred to as the "evaluator"\) will schedule a 30-45 minute, face-to-face technical interview \(via video-chat\) with you.

##### Phase Interviews have two parts: a coding challenge and a technical comprehension interview.

The coding challenge simulates a skill-level appropriate “take home challenge,” similar to what developers encounter in many job interview processes. It gives you an opportunity to demonstrate skills gained in a phase and readiness to begin a new phase. Depending on the phase you're interviewing into, the coding challenge may require you to complete exercises, build a small app, or build a full-stack application.

The technical comprehension interview is a 1-on-1 conversation with an SEP designed to evaluate your understanding of the solutions you came up with on the coding challenge. You'll meet with an SEP via video chat for about 30-45 minutes to dig in to various parts of the submitted code. You won't be expected to explain abstract technical ideas that are unrelated to your code, but you *will* be expected to be able to explain the code you wrote and how it works on a basic level. See [this FAQ](../program-faqs.md#what-am-i-expected-to-be-able-to-explain-in-a-comprehension-interview) for more detail.

Phase Interview outcomes are shared with you via email on the Friday afternoon of the week you took the interview.

Should you have a successful Phase Interview you will be required to begin the new phase the following Monday. If, for example you interview out of Phase 2 in your 5th week of the phase you may not stay in Phase 2 for an additional three weeks and then move on to Phase 3. You must begin Phase 3 the Monday after being accepted into the phase.

### How to request a Phase Interview

1. Notify the SEP for the phase you are interviewing into via Slack direct message \(DM\) no later than 5pm on the Thursday prior to the week you'd like to interview. So, if you wish to take a Phase Interview in the upcoming week, you'd notify the SEP for the phase you want to enter no later than 5pm on the Thursday of the current week.
2. Your DM can be as simple as: "“Hi \_\_, I’d like to interview for Phase X during week X”
3. On the Monday of your interview week, you will receive a link to the coding challenge and instructions for submission.
4. Upon receipt of your coding challenge DM the SEP for the phase you are interviewing into letting them know you received the challenge and have begun work.  

### Getting Support from SEPs

The kind of support SEPs provide while you're working on the Phase Interview is limited to clarifying questions about the goal, its specs, or debugging strange environment or git issues.

You should not expect the same level of in-depth support that would ordinarily be available on non-interview projects. For example, it is unlikely that a SEP will "pair program" with you or do any kind of "cognitive apprenticeship." In most cases, the SEP will not even touch the learner's keyboard.

#### The No Peer Collaboration Rule 

When working on a phase interview coding challenge, **you must complete the challenge without help from other learners or coaches.** The Phase Interviews are designed to be an independent demonstration of your skills and understanding. If you need support, SEPs can help you with clarifying questions only. If you are unsure about whether your question counts as a ‘clarifying question’ - go ahead and ask. They will let you know whether they can offer the support you’re requesting. Again, procoaches are not available to offer support for Phase Interviews.

We consider sharing actual solution code for a challenge a serious breach of integrity and will follow up with you accordingly.

Here’s why: working with other people on your challenge solution is not in your best interest. Remember, in the short term, **passing code does not equal a passing interview**; you must be able to discuss, explain, and work with the code you wrote in order to be accepted to the next phase. In the long term, you’ll do yourself a disservice by getting an inaccurate reflection of your own skills.

### Work from home or at the Guild

During the week of your Phase Interview you have the option to work remotely or at the Guild. If you choose to work remotely you are essentially working remotely for the entire week. Although you are required to submit your code on Wednesday afternoon, your technical interview may not be scheduled until Friday via zoom. We recommend being in a quiet, private place for your technical interview, which for some of us means being at home instead of the office. During your downtime between challenge submission and the technical interview we recommend reviewing modules from the phase you're attempting to interview out of or into - it's up to you. We just recommend making the most of your practice time.

### How to submit the Coding Challenge

**The coding challenge is due no later than 12pm on the Wednesday of your Interview week.**

Once you've completed the coding challenge portion of the Phase Interview you must submit your code for review. Use the following steps to successfully submit your work:

* Open Slack to any channel
* Use the`/project set-artifact <repo url>` command to submit your code.

Commit message:

moving details from FAQ to the Phase Interview section.

Phases/Interviews/README.md, after:

# Phase Interviews

Phase Interviews enable you to move from one phase to another. As mentioned in the [Pacing](/Phases/pacing.md) section, it should take you six \(6\) weeks, including phase interview, to complete any of the first three phases. Eight \(8\) weeks is the maximum amount of time you can spend in phases 1, 2 or 3, respectively. You may choose to complete a phase interview at any time during the phase, but, there are two rules:

1. A Phase Interview may only be attempted _twice_.
2. You must complete and pass the phase interview no later than the 8th week after you begin the phase.

**All Phase Interviews begin on Monday at 9am and must be submitted for evaluation by Wednesday at 12pm.**

Following submission, the evaluating SEP \(also referred to as the "evaluator"\) will schedule a 30-45 minute, face-to-face technical interview \(via video-chat\) with you.

##### Phase Interviews have two parts: a coding challenge and a technical comprehension interview.

The coding challenge simulates a skill-level appropriate “take home challenge,” similar to what developers encounter in many job interview processes. It gives you an opportunity to demonstrate skills gained in a phase and readiness to begin a new phase. Depending on the phase you're interviewing into, the coding challenge may require you to complete exercises, build a small app, or build a full-stack application.

The technical comprehension interview is a 1-on-1 conversation with an SEP designed to evaluate your understanding of the solutions you came up with on the coding challenge. You'll meet with an SEP via video chat for about 30-45 minutes to dig in to various parts of the submitted code. You won't be expected to explain abstract technical ideas that are unrelated to your code, but you *will* be expected to be able to explain the code you wrote and how it works on a basic level. 

Here's a non-technical analogy.

Imagine you were learning to speak a foreign language instead of Javascript, say Romanian. We give you a take home exam and one of the questions is,

> “How do you say, ‘I’m very hungry’ in Romanian?”

and you write down the correct answer:

> “Mi-e foarte foame.”

In the comprehension interview you wouldn't be asked the etymology of the word “foarte” or to give a primer in verb conjugation in romance languages. What you would be expected to be able to answer are questions like “What does the word ‘foarte’ mean?“. 

That’s pretty much the type of understanding we're looking for in the Phase interviews. If you submit a 10 line function you may be asked something like, “What does line 5 do?“. So you should know roughly what each line of your code does and be able to explain it.

Phase Interview outcomes are shared with you via email on the Friday afternoon of the week you took the interview.

Should you have a successful Phase Interview you will be required to begin the new phase the following Monday. If, for example you interview out of Phase 2 in your 5th week of the phase you may not stay in Phase 2 for an additional three weeks and then move on to Phase 3. You must begin Phase 3 the Monday after being accepted into the phase.

### How to request a Phase Interview

1. Notify the SEP for the phase you are interviewing into via Slack direct message \(DM\) no later than 5pm on the Thursday prior to the week you'd like to interview. So, if you wish to take a Phase Interview in the upcoming week, you'd notify the SEP for the phase you want to enter no later than 5pm on the Thursday of the current week.
2. Your DM can be as simple as: "“Hi \_\_, I’d like to interview for Phase X during week X”
3. On the Monday of your interview week, you will receive a link to the coding challenge and instructions for submission.
4. Upon receipt of your coding challenge DM the SEP for the phase you are interviewing into letting them know you received the challenge and have begun work.  

### Getting Support from SEPs

The kind of support SEPs provide while you're working on the Phase Interview is limited to clarifying questions about the goal, its specs, or debugging strange environment or git issues.

You should not expect the same level of in-depth support that would ordinarily be available on non-interview projects. For example, it is unlikely that a SEP will "pair program" with you or do any kind of "cognitive apprenticeship." In most cases, the SEP will not even touch the learner's keyboard.

#### The No Peer Collaboration Rule 

When working on a phase interview coding challenge, **you must complete the challenge without help from other learners or coaches.** The Phase Interviews are designed to be an independent demonstration of your skills and understanding. If you need support, SEPs can help you with clarifying questions only. If you are unsure about whether your question counts as a ‘clarifying question’ - go ahead and ask. They will let you know whether they can offer the support you’re requesting. Again, procoaches are not available to offer support for Phase Interviews.

We consider sharing actual solution code for a challenge a serious breach of integrity and will follow up with you accordingly.

Here’s why: working with other people on your challenge solution is not in your best interest. Remember, in the short term, **passing code does not equal a passing interview**; you must be able to discuss, explain, and work with the code you wrote in order to be accepted to the next phase. In the long term, you’ll do yourself a disservice by getting an inaccurate reflection of your own skills.

### Work from home or at the Guild

During the week of your Phase Interview you have the option to work remotely or at the Guild. If you choose to work remotely you are essentially working remotely for the entire week. Although you are required to submit your code on Wednesday afternoon, your technical interview may not be scheduled until Friday via zoom. We recommend being in a quiet, private place for your technical interview, which for some of us means being at home instead of the office. During your downtime between challenge submission and the technical interview we recommend reviewing modules from the phase you're attempting to interview out of or into - it's up to you. We just recommend making the most of your practice time.

### How to submit the Coding Challenge

**The coding challenge is due no later than 12pm on the Wednesday of your Interview week.**

Once you've completed the coding challenge portion of the Phase Interview you must submit your code for review. Use the following steps to successfully submit your work:

* Open Slack to any channel
* Use the`/project set-artifact <repo url>` command to submit your code.
