Play_Conditions/Frequently_Asked_Questions.md, before:

## Frequently Asked Questions

**What is the time commitment?**

Show up every weekday (except [these observed national holidays](Holiday_List.md)) for regular hours: 8.30am to 6pm

Almost every week, there will be events happening during the evening. These events will be optional but highly recommended (usually Tuesday and Thursday evening)

Occasionally, there will be something happening on a Saturday. We’ll give you a heads up at least a month in advance and try to minimize that stuff so people can have their weekends.

**What happens if I show up late? What if I have to leave early?**

Your stats will be affected, and you may have to make up work. But so long as you stay in integrity (i.e. let your team and/or moderator know ahead of time), you will not be asked to leave. That said, please hold the program hours as sacred and do whatever you can to protect them and ensure you are present and ready to learn.

Schedule appointments and other obligations outside of program hours - exceptions should only be made for medical appointments and civic duties that cannot happen outside of business hours.

**What if I get sick?**

Inform your team and/or moderator, and make sure to make up anything you missed. Stay in integrity.

**Can I stay late and work at the office on weekends?**

No. We close the doors at 6:30pm, and nobody works on weekends. Get some rest, exercise, go outside! Your mind and body need breaks to sustain the prolonged learning effort.

### Leaving, starting, stopping the program

**Do you kick people out? Why? How? Will I know ahead of time?**

**Can I take a leave of absence?**

Under extenuating circumstances (e.g. illness, family emergency), learners may be allowed to take a leave of absence from the program. Upon your return, you would likely join the cohort closest to the point in the program when you had to leave. Leaves of absence will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis.

**Can I re-join a later cohort if it turns out the timing isn’t good for me?**

We make cohort selections carefully and cannot guarantee you a spot in another cohort. Please make sure that you’ve considered all scheduling challenges ahead of time so that you can commit to your assigned cohort start date.

If you have to leave, and need to re-join a later cohort, you can do so as long as the next cohort start date is within 40 weeks of your original cohort’s start date. If you need to leave for longer, then you will have to quit and re-apply.

You can only change cohorts once. After that, you will need to quit and re-apply.

**What if I change my mind after I sign this contract?**

By signing this contract, you’re letting us know that you are certain about your commitment to Learners Guild. Please don’t sign it until you are sure—reach out to us to discuss questions or concerns. If you change your mind after signing the contract and choose not to join the program, we cannot offer your spot to another learner for that cohort. Please carefully consider your decision, and sign only when you are a joyful and confident “yes”. If you need to seek the opinion of a trusted third party, we highly encourage you to do so.

**What’s the consequence for leaving the program early?**

During the fourth week of the program, you’ll have an opportunity to reflect on your first three weeks at Learners Guild and on the path ahead. If for some reason you’ve decided that becoming a software engineer is not the path you want to pursue, or that you don’t wish to continue pursuing that path with Learners Guild, you’ll have an opportunity to leave the program with no additional consequence or obligation. Past that point, you are financially committed and obligated to the full Income Share Agreement with Learners Guild.

### Working together

**What’s required? What’s optional? (Projects, Home Group, HD modules)**

With other learners, you collectively choose the projects you work on - no specific project is required, many things may be offered or suggested by a Practitioner or Learning Facilitator. What is required is that you participate fully in the structure of the program:

- you vote on choosing a goals and join a project to work towards each week
- you dedicate yourself to the project and your team for the week
- you complete the end-of-week retrospective
- you attend daily standups and weekly home group meetings
- you serve as a team lead when it’s your turn to do so

Similar to the projects you choose to work on, you should choose to work on HD modules that support goals you have for yourself or address feedback you’re receiving from peers, practitioners, or facilitators.

**What if I start a project and don’t want to keep working on it?**

Talk to your team and see if you can come to a compromise. Ultimately, the choice is yours, but abandoning your team will have consequences for your stats (not to mention your social standing among your peers). The same rules apply as in a workplace: you are responsible for your own productivity, and if you’re not happy on a project, you should tell your team and work together to find a way forward.

**Can I choose who I want to work with?**

By joining the Guild, you’re making an agreement to collaborate with anyone and everyone else in the Guild on a given project at a given time. Just like in the working world, you don’t get to choose the people you’re assigned to work on teams and projects with.

**What if I have a conflict with someone that I can’t resolve on my own?**

Conflicts happen. It’s natural. And in most cases working through conflicts with our teammates only serves to improve our relationships and the working environment. Our intention is to empower you to resolve interpersonal conflicts you may have with others. If the conflict is tenacious, there is a [formal conflict resolution process](/Processes/Conflict.md) in place to support you in resolving it.

**Can I use my LG laptop for personal use? Are there any limits to what I can install on my laptop or what I can use it for?**

Yes, you can use it for personal activities. However, you will need to wipe the hard drive and perform a clean OS install before giving it back to us at the end of the program. It is an expensive piece of machinery, so please take good care of it and leave it in good condition for the next learner who inherits it.

You can install anything on the laptop, so long as it is legal.

**Can I use my own laptop instead of the LG laptop?**

You can, although you need to have a Mac. Everyone at Learners Guild uses a Mac computer, so it will be easier for you to collaborate with your team if you are all using the same platform.

**What platforms and operating systems does Learners Guild use?**

Apple computers running the latest Mac OS. If you are used to a Windows or Linux environment, there will be a learning curve, but it is worth it. Being able to use a Mac well is a useful skill in this field.

**Is there a dress code?**

Casual, but professional. As in, we want you to be comfortable and that looks different ways to different people. So feel free to be in the full expression of your personal style, but maybe leave the pj’s at home.

### After the program

**What if I can’t get a job?**

Keep learning and studying. We all learn at different paces. As long as your keeping your agreements with the Guild, there is no limit to how long you can stay and keep practicing your craft.

**What if I change my mind and don’t want to be a software developer?**

We would be sorry to hear that, but of course it is your choice. You would still be bound to the financial agreement you sign, and access to all of the resources offered to Learners Guild alumnae. If you have doubts about pursuing this career before joining, please let us know ASAP. Our business depends on your commitment to becoming a software developer.

**What if I want to do a startup after?**

Learners Guild’s business model depends on our learners “paying forward” their tuition through an Income Sharing Agreement in their first 3 years employed as a software developer after graduating the program.

If you choose to start your own company within three years of leaving Learners Guild you immediately owe us the remaining payments of your Income Sharing Agreements.

**What if I don’t earn more than $50,000 per year in my first job?**

Income sharing only starts if you're earning a salary of more than $50k.

**What if I get fired from my first job or decide to quit?**

If you're unemployed, the Income Sharing Agreement is paused until you're making a salary again.

Commit message:

Clarify that network usage policy applies to personal laptops

Play_Conditions/Frequently_Asked_Questions.md, after:

## Frequently Asked Questions

**What is the time commitment?**

Show up every weekday (except [these observed national holidays](Holiday_List.md)) for regular hours: 8.30am to 6pm

Almost every week, there will be events happening during the evening. These events will be optional but highly recommended (usually Tuesday and Thursday evening)

Occasionally, there will be something happening on a Saturday. We’ll give you a heads up at least a month in advance and try to minimize that stuff so people can have their weekends.

**What happens if I show up late? What if I have to leave early?**

Your stats will be affected, and you may have to make up work. But so long as you stay in integrity (i.e. let your team and/or moderator know ahead of time), you will not be asked to leave. That said, please hold the program hours as sacred and do whatever you can to protect them and ensure you are present and ready to learn.

Schedule appointments and other obligations outside of program hours - exceptions should only be made for medical appointments and civic duties that cannot happen outside of business hours.

**What if I get sick?**

Inform your team and/or moderator, and make sure to make up anything you missed. Stay in integrity.

**Can I stay late and work at the office on weekends?**

No. We close the doors at 6:30pm, and nobody works on weekends. Get some rest, exercise, go outside! Your mind and body need breaks to sustain the prolonged learning effort.

### Leaving, starting, stopping the program

**Do you kick people out? Why? How? Will I know ahead of time?**

**Can I take a leave of absence?**

Under extenuating circumstances (e.g. illness, family emergency), learners may be allowed to take a leave of absence from the program. Upon your return, you would likely join the cohort closest to the point in the program when you had to leave. Leaves of absence will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis.

**Can I re-join a later cohort if it turns out the timing isn’t good for me?**

We make cohort selections carefully and cannot guarantee you a spot in another cohort. Please make sure that you’ve considered all scheduling challenges ahead of time so that you can commit to your assigned cohort start date.

If you have to leave, and need to re-join a later cohort, you can do so as long as the next cohort start date is within 40 weeks of your original cohort’s start date. If you need to leave for longer, then you will have to quit and re-apply.

You can only change cohorts once. After that, you will need to quit and re-apply.

**What if I change my mind after I sign this contract?**

By signing this contract, you’re letting us know that you are certain about your commitment to Learners Guild. Please don’t sign it until you are sure—reach out to us to discuss questions or concerns. If you change your mind after signing the contract and choose not to join the program, we cannot offer your spot to another learner for that cohort. Please carefully consider your decision, and sign only when you are a joyful and confident “yes”. If you need to seek the opinion of a trusted third party, we highly encourage you to do so.

**What’s the consequence for leaving the program early?**

During the fourth week of the program, you’ll have an opportunity to reflect on your first three weeks at Learners Guild and on the path ahead. If for some reason you’ve decided that becoming a software engineer is not the path you want to pursue, or that you don’t wish to continue pursuing that path with Learners Guild, you’ll have an opportunity to leave the program with no additional consequence or obligation. Past that point, you are financially committed and obligated to the full Income Share Agreement with Learners Guild.

### Working together

**What’s required? What’s optional? (Projects, Home Group, HD modules)**

With other learners, you collectively choose the projects you work on - no specific project is required, many things may be offered or suggested by a Practitioner or Learning Facilitator. What is required is that you participate fully in the structure of the program:

- you vote on choosing a goals and join a project to work towards each week
- you dedicate yourself to the project and your team for the week
- you complete the end-of-week retrospective
- you attend daily standups and weekly home group meetings
- you serve as a team lead when it’s your turn to do so

Similar to the projects you choose to work on, you should choose to work on HD modules that support goals you have for yourself or address feedback you’re receiving from peers, practitioners, or facilitators.

**What if I start a project and don’t want to keep working on it?**

Talk to your team and see if you can come to a compromise. Ultimately, the choice is yours, but abandoning your team will have consequences for your stats (not to mention your social standing among your peers). The same rules apply as in a workplace: you are responsible for your own productivity, and if you’re not happy on a project, you should tell your team and work together to find a way forward.

**Can I choose who I want to work with?**

By joining the Guild, you’re making an agreement to collaborate with anyone and everyone else in the Guild on a given project at a given time. Just like in the working world, you don’t get to choose the people you’re assigned to work on teams and projects with.

**What if I have a conflict with someone that I can’t resolve on my own?**

Conflicts happen. It’s natural. And in most cases working through conflicts with our teammates only serves to improve our relationships and the working environment. Our intention is to empower you to resolve interpersonal conflicts you may have with others. If the conflict is tenacious, there is a [formal conflict resolution process](/Processes/Conflict.md) in place to support you in resolving it.

**Can I use my LG laptop for personal use? Are there any limits to what I can install on my laptop or what I can use it for?**

Yes, you can use it for personal activities. However, you will need to wipe the hard drive and perform a clean OS install before giving it back to us at the end of the program. It is an expensive piece of machinery, so please take good care of it and leave it in good condition for the next learner who inherits it.

You can install anything on the laptop, so long as it is legal.

**Can I use my own laptop instead of the LG laptop?**

You can, although you need to have a Mac. Everyone at Learners Guild uses a Mac computer, so it will be easier for you to collaborate with your team if you are all using the same platform.

While using Learners Guild facilities and network access, you are still bound by the same usage policy as other learners (i.e. no illegal online activities).

**What platforms and operating systems does Learners Guild use?**

Apple computers running the latest Mac OS. If you are used to a Windows or Linux environment, there will be a learning curve, but it is worth it. Being able to use a Mac well is a useful skill in this field.

**Is there a dress code?**

Casual, but professional. As in, we want you to be comfortable and that looks different ways to different people. So feel free to be in the full expression of your personal style, but maybe leave the pj’s at home.

### After the program

**What if I can’t get a job?**

Keep learning and studying. We all learn at different paces. As long as your keeping your agreements with the Guild, there is no limit to how long you can stay and keep practicing your craft.

**What if I change my mind and don’t want to be a software developer?**

We would be sorry to hear that, but of course it is your choice. You would still be bound to the financial agreement you sign, and access to all of the resources offered to Learners Guild alumnae. If you have doubts about pursuing this career before joining, please let us know ASAP. Our business depends on your commitment to becoming a software developer.

**What if I want to do a startup after?**

Learners Guild’s business model depends on our learners “paying forward” their tuition through an Income Sharing Agreement in their first 3 years employed as a software developer after graduating the program.

If you choose to start your own company within three years of leaving Learners Guild you immediately owe us the remaining payments of your Income Sharing Agreements.

**What if I don’t earn more than $50,000 per year in my first job?**

Income sharing only starts if you're earning a salary of more than $50k.

**What if I get fired from my first job or decide to quit?**

If you're unemployed, the Income Sharing Agreement is paused until you're making a salary again.
