Game_Manual/Challenge.md, before:

# Challenge

A key component of the game is to create an environment where learners can find _challenge_. This is based on a theory of learning which says that learners should seek activities which place them in their [zone of proximal development (ZPD)][wikipedia-zpd].

To do this effectively, you'll need to know _what_ your ZPD is and _how it feels_ when you're in it.

To find the best opportunity to learn in your ZPD, you'll also need to know _how to choose and/or create_ appropriate goals.

## Finding your ZPD

There are four rough categories of relative difficulty for any goal: the goal can be (1) within your competency level, so that you can do it without assistance or (2) so easy for you that it borders on tedium or (3) so difficult that it overwhelms you and leaves you disoriented and confused or (4) challenging and novel, and far enough outside of your current competency that you need some assistance to complete it.

If you rank a task or goal on a scale of increasing difficulty as measured by how it feels to complete it, it would look something like this:

1. Boring
2. Easy
3. Challenging
4. Overwhelming

The 3rd zone—between easy and overwhelming—is your "Goldilocks" spot, your ZPD.

So how do you find it? These are a few signs indicating the feeling of "being in your ZPD":

- You can't do it by yourself. You need support.
- It slightly scares you.
- It has your full attention.
- You're not totally sure that you can complete the goal.
- Your brain is sore, and you're ready for the weekend.
- It pushes the urgency of your time because you've taken on something that is ambitious to complete.

Another way to think of your ZPD is as your ["flow state"][wikipedia-flow]: that state of mind where you are so engaged in the task that the rest of the world seems to fade away. It can be a lot of fun, although you will often feel discomfort—learning is a change process, and we are wired to feel unease with the new and unfamiliar.

### Example

To demonstrate the different levels of difficulty, let's use an example. Pilar is 34 and rides her bike to her job as a hardware engineer. She's been riding a bike since she was a kid, and has done most small repairs at home. When she needs major repairs she usually takes it to a shop.

For Pilar, a goal of "ride your bike 100 meters without falling over" would be a **boring** task. She could do it while talking on her phone.

The goal "repair a flat tire" would be **easy** for her: she's done it before, and she wouldn't need anyone's help to complete it. She might need to read the instructions on the patch kit, but that is all the outside knowledge she'd need to complete the goal effectively.

A **challenging** task for Pilar would be one like "replace the brake system". She is familiar enough with how the brakes on a bike work, and she could probably get halfway using her own tools and skills, but she's not confident that she could complete the goal on her own. She'd likely need a mechanic to guide her through the more complicated parts, and to give her feedback on her work so that she can trust that her brakes will function as needed.

If Pilar were given the goal of "build a racing bicycle", it would likely be **overwhelming** for her. There are whole branches of knowledge that she'd have to gain to complete this task (aerodynamics, structural engineering, etc.), and she wouldn't know where to start. With her current skillset, she wouldn't be able to make much progress at all on this goal.


[wikipedia-zpd]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zone_of_proximal_development
[wikipedia-flow]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flow_(psychology)

Commit message:

Write advice for choosing goals

Game_Manual/Challenge.md, after:

# Challenge

A key component of the game is to create an environment where learners can find _challenge_. This is based on a theory of learning which says that learners should seek activities which place them in their [zone of proximal development (ZPD)][wikipedia-zpd].

To do this effectively, you'll need to know _what_ your ZPD is and [how it feels](#finding-your-zpd) when you're in it.

To find the best opportunity to learn in your ZPD, you'll also need to know [how to choose and/or create](#choosing-goals-for-challenge) appropriate goals.

## Finding your ZPD

There are four rough categories of relative difficulty for any goal: the goal can be (1) within your competency level, so that you can do it without assistance or (2) so easy for you that it borders on tedium or (3) so difficult that it overwhelms you and leaves you disoriented and confused or (4) challenging and novel, and far enough outside of your current competency that you need some assistance to complete it.

If you rank a task or goal on a scale of increasing difficulty as measured by how it feels to complete it, it would look something like this:

1. Boring
2. Easy
3. Challenging
4. Overwhelming

The 3rd zone—between easy and overwhelming—is your "Goldilocks" spot, your ZPD.

So how do you find it? These are a few signs indicating the feeling of "being in your ZPD":

- You can't do it by yourself. You need support.
- It slightly scares you.
- It has your full attention.
- You're not totally sure that you can complete the goal.
- Your brain is sore, and you're ready for the weekend.
- It pushes the urgency of your time because you've taken on something that is ambitious to complete.

Another way to think of your ZPD is as your ["flow state"][wikipedia-flow]: that state of mind where you are so engaged in the task that the rest of the world seems to fade away. It can be a lot of fun, although you will often feel discomfort—learning is a change process, and we are wired to feel unease with the new and unfamiliar.

### Example

To demonstrate the different levels of difficulty, let's use an example. Pilar is 34 and rides her bike to her job as a hardware engineer. She's been riding a bike since she was a kid, and has done most small repairs at home. When she needs major repairs she usually takes it to a shop.

For Pilar, a goal of "ride your bike 100 meters without falling over" would be a **boring** task. She could do it while talking on her phone.

The goal "repair a flat tire" would be **easy** for her: she's done it before, and she wouldn't need anyone's help to complete it. She might need to read the instructions on the patch kit, but that is all the outside knowledge she'd need to complete the goal effectively.

A **challenging** task for Pilar would be one like "replace the brake system". She is familiar enough with how the brakes on a bike work, and she could probably get halfway using her own tools and skills, but she's not confident that she could complete the goal on her own. She'd likely need a mechanic to guide her through the more complicated parts, and to give her feedback on her work so that she can trust that her brakes will function as needed.

If Pilar were given the goal of "build a racing bicycle", it would likely be **overwhelming** for her. There are whole branches of knowledge that she'd have to gain to complete this task (aerodynamics, structural engineering, etc.), and she wouldn't know where to start. With her current skillset, she wouldn't be able to make much progress at all on this goal.

## Choosing Goals for Challenge

When you are choosing or creating goals, you should be considering whether or not the goal will put you into your ZPD.

This is a form of prediction, and prediction is hard. Learning to pick goals that at the right level of challenge is a skill in itself, and one you'll have to practice over time.

To help you get started, and to scaffold your thinking about this, consider the following questions when choosing or creating a goal:

1. Have you completed a similar goal before?
  - (A) Yes
  - (B) No
1. How many objectives are within your range of skills, and how many are beyond?
  - (A) 70-100% within, 0-30% beyond
  - (B) 30-70% within, 30-70% beyond
  - (C) 0-30% within, 70-100% beyond
1. Which percentage of the terms and concepts used in the goal familiar to you?
  - (A) 90-100%
  - (B) 70-90%
  - (C) 0-70%
1. Do you feel confident that you could complete the goal in the time allotted?
  - (A) Yes
  - (B) No

If you answered (A) for most of the above, then the goal is likely too easy. If you answered (B) for all questions, then this goal is likely to put you in your ZPD. If you answered (C) to any questions, the goal might be too difficult for you at this point.

[wikipedia-zpd]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zone_of_proximal_development
[wikipedia-flow]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flow_(psychology)
