Game_Manual/Echo.md, before:

# Echo

Echo is the primary interface for the LOS. Log in at [https://echo.learnersguild.org/](https://echo.learnersguild.org/).

Echo is under active development. If you notice something that could be better, or you encounter a bug, please log them in the [LOS repo][los-repo]. We want your feedback. Together we can build a more perfect Learning Operating System.

## Commands

Echo supports a variety of commands for interacting with the game.

These include commands like `log` for logging reflections and notes, and `vote` for voting on goals.

To issue a command, type a forward slash `/` followed by the command name in the chat window of Echo. You can type commands from any channel.

When you type `/`, Echo will show a menu of the available commands and some hints as to their usage.

For many commands, passing the `-h` or `--help` flag will show you a helpful message about the command.

For example, to get help with the `/log` command, type `/log --help`.

[los-repo]: https://github.com/LearnersGuild/los

Commit message:

Update Echo example commands: review not log

Game_Manual/Echo.md, after:

# Echo

Echo is the primary interface for the LOS. Log in at [https://echo.learnersguild.org/](https://echo.learnersguild.org/).

Echo is under active development. If you notice something that could be better, or you encounter a bug, please log them in the [LOS repo][los-repo]. We want your feedback. Together we can build a more perfect Learning Operating System.

## Commands

Echo supports a variety of commands for interacting with the game.

These include commands like `review` for reviewing projects, and `vote` for voting on goals.

To issue a command, type a forward slash `/` followed by the command name in the chat window of Echo. You can type commands from any channel.

When you type `/`, Echo will show a menu of the available commands and some hints as to their usage.

For many commands, passing the `-h` or `--help` flag will show you a helpful message about the command.

For example, to get help with the `/review` command, type `/review --help`.

[los-repo]: https://github.com/LearnersGuild/los
