Game_Manual/Game_Boundaries.md, before:

# Game Boundaries

## Game Objectives

The game is designed to support you in tracking and achieving two objectives:

1. To become a world class beginner in your craft
2. To be a net positive on the culture of your team

## Stats

At the end of every project, the data gathered in the reflection phase is used to calculate and update your player stats. These are meant to reflect your progress towards your goals. Think of stats as your overall player "health".

Here are the main game stats:

1. **Assessment Accuracy:** Reflects the degree to which you are biased in your assessment of yourself and others (as compared to the average of others' assessment). The closer this stat is to zero the better off you are.

2. **XP:** Your experience. XP grows over time, the larger the number the higher your experience. XP is calculated by multiplying
  - Your percentage contribution to projects
  - The total hours worked on the project by all team members
  - Project Quality
  - Project Completeness

3. **Average Hours per Week:** Average hours per week you spent contributing to team projects.

4. **Learning Support:** Average of how supported your team members felt by you. This is a weighted average with more recent projects counting more than earlier ones. This number ranges from 1 to 7 with 7 being the highest possible.

5. **Culture Contribution:** Average of how much your team members felt you contributed positively to the team culture. This is a weighted average with more recent projects counting more than earlier ones. This number ranges from 1 to 7 with 7 being the highest possible.

## Game Over Conditions

Our game is not designed as a zero-sum game. It is a multi-player co-operative game. One player winning does not mean another loses.

There are, however, conditions by which a player can be kicked out if any of the following happens:

1. Their Average Hours per Week is too low
2. Their XP is too low
3. Their Learning Support is too low
4. Their Culture Contribution is too low
5. Their Assessment Accuracy is way off (too high or too low)

For now, since we have very little historical data tracking stats, "too high" and "too low" are the best we can do in defining these stat thresholds. It's up to the Game Moderator to decide what the thresholds are for each stat and to communicate these thresholds to the players.

Commit message:

Language and formatting changes
Assessment Accuracy -> Discernment
Avg. Hours per Week -> Time Dedication per Cycle

Updated the number type for support scores, and made other type and
formatting edits.

Game_Manual/Game_Boundaries.md, after:

# Game Boundaries

## Game Objectives

The game is designed to support you in tracking and achieving two objectives:

1. To become a world class beginner in your craft
1. To be a net positive on the culture of your team

## Stats

At the end of every project, the data gathered in the reflection phase is used to calculate and update your player stats. These are meant to reflect your progress towards your goals. Think of stats as your overall player "health".

1. **Discernment:** Reflects the degree to which you are biased in your assessment of yourself and others (as compared to the average of others' assessment). Represented as a positive or negative percentage, corresponding to your tendency to over- or under-estimate your own contribution. The closer this stat is to zero, the more accurate your discernment is.

1. **XP:** Your experience, aggregated and condensed to a number. XP always grows; the larger the number, the higher your experience. XP is calculated by combining:
  - Your percentage contribution to projects
  - Total hours worked on the project by all team members
  - Project quality
  - Project completeness

1. **Time Dedication per Cycle:** Average hours per cycle you spent contributing to team projects.

1. **Learning Support:** How much your team members felt that you supported them in their learning. This is a weighted average with more recent projects counting more than earlier ones. Represented as a percentage (0-100%).

1. **Culture Contribution:** How much your team members felt you contributed positively to the team culture. This is a weighted average with more recent projects counting more than earlier ones. Represented as a percentage (0-100%).

## Game Over Conditions

Our game is not designed as a zero-sum game. It is a multi-player co-operative game. One player winning does not mean another loses.

There are, however, conditions by which a player can be kicked out if any of the following happens:

1. Their Time Dedication per Cycle is too low
2. Their XP is too low
3. Their Learning Support is too low
4. Their Culture Contribution is too low
5. Their Discernment is way off (too high or too low)

For now, since we have very little historical data tracking stats, "too high" and "too low" are the best we can do in defining these stat thresholds. It's up to the Moderator to decide what the thresholds are for each stat and to communicate these thresholds to the players.
