Game_Manual/Moderator_Guide.md, before:

# Moderator Guide

Moderators act as referee and game master; they help ensure proper structure and pacing. In addition, they aid learners in understanding how to play most effectively.

Orienting learners to the systems, structures, and processes of the game is usually done in the first days of gameplay. Use this guide as a script for orientations.

## LOS Overview

1. Intro to purpose of the game
  - Briefing of theoretical basis
  - Connection to collective purpose
1. Gameplay explanation
  - Cycles
  - Goals
  - Projects
  - Roles
  - Stats
1. Succeeding
  - Find dignified livelihood & support others in doing so
  - Stats as a model (and all models are wrong)
  - How to earn stats
1. User interface walkthrough
  - Navigating Echo
  - Navigating the craft repo
  - Using commands
1. Continuous improvement
  - How to submit bug reports
  - How to offer feedback
1. Q&A

## Choosing Goals

1. Define goal
  - Template for project
  - Explain description, context, and specs
1. Goal library walkthrough
1. How to pick a goal
  - Relevancy
  - Challenge
1. Discussion: relevant stretchy goals

## Creating Goals

1. Analyze example goals
  - What characterizes a good goal?
  - Review scope, relevancy, clarity
1. Goal creation walkthrough
  - Using the goal template
  - Following the process in `CONTRIBUTING`
  - Submitting for review
  - Review and publishing process
1. Break into groups of 2/3, each takes a crack at creating a goal
  - Then share and group review one or two
1. Moderator's role in goal curation

## Group Voting
1. Using the `/vote` command
  - Double voting doesn't count
  - Order matters
  - Change your mind as much as you want
1. Go around and pitch which goal you chose and why
  - The point is to inform, not to win/persuade
  - Feel free to vote for goals that you didn't create
  - Clarifying questions after each pitch
  - Pitch limited to 1 minute
1. Learning what to work on next is the ultimate skill
  - Pay attention to how other people choose what they're going to work on next
  - Pay attention to why you're voting for the goals you're voting on
## Forming Projects

1. How a goal becomes a project
  - Assignment algorithm
  - Team formation and makeup
1. What makes a project
  - Source goal
  - Team
  - Artifact
  - Completeness criteria
1. Starting a project
  - Move to channel
  - Create artifact
  - Define specs

## Practicing

1. Daily routine
  - Standups
  - Task breakdown
  - Using cognitive apprenticeship patterns
  - Pairing, soloing, mob programming
1. Always be learning
  - Balancing challenge, support, and progress
  - Refresh of how to earn stats
1. Keep track of (for reflection period)
  - Completeness
  - Relative contribution (yours and others)
  - Team culture and contribution to it (yours and others)
  - How are you supporting others' learning and how are you being supported

## Running a Standup

1. Modified standup format
1. Each person go around and share:
  - What you learned yesterday
  - What you plan on working on today
  - What's blocking or confusing you

## Running a Reflection

1. Purpose of a reflection
  - The learning science behind reflecting
  - Capturing feedback and evaluating work
  - Usually someone else evaluates how well you learned. In this environment, you and your team are doing that evaluation along the way. Locus of authority is within you.
1. Parts of a reflection
  - Retrospective: internal to project, about the process
  - Review: both inter- and intra-project, about the outcome
  - Remind people to update project artifacts
  - No collusion
    - Ruins the data (wisdom of the crowds v.s. tyranny of the persuasive)
    - Bad feedback = Garbage in, Garbage out
    - Don't discuss relative contribution or completeness numbers
1. Retrospective questions
  - Walkthrough of the retro process
  - Question types, what they mean, how they are used
1. Reviewing projects
  - How to measure completeness
1. Invite people to blog/journal for their own personal reflection


---

### Scratch notes from Tanner's first LOS Orientation

- this is a game
- difference between a game and classroom
- you start with zero
- we like games because they emphasize constant feedback
- the more feedback you can get the more you learn
- low consequence environment. it's safe to make mistakes.
- different roles. game board. terrain. stats and scores.
- it's our job to make sure the game runs smoothly. game master.

- as a learner you have two goals
- first goal is to get a job. to learn enough to be able to compete in the market
- second part of the goal is to co-create a learning environment.

in some ways they are in opposition, in other ways they are deeply aligned. it's our intention to create a community where you are constantly sharing knowledge exponentially.

there are two stats:

first is XP. how much experience you have. we measure it by how many projects you complete.

second statistics is support. to what extent are you supporting the rest of your team. focus on both those stats.

week to week what does it look like:

we've broken the game into cycles. similar to quarters in football. 1 cycle is 1 week. Every cycle has same cadence:

At the beginning of the cycle we all propose goals for the weeks. Then we vote on them, then teams form on them, you work on them for the end of the cycle. At the end there's a reflection period and you do two things:

1. Reflect on the team. Harvest all the interpersonal and procedural learning of the week. Also a time for self reflection. Without reflection there's really no learning.

2. Review: Review the code that was produced. The completeness of both your own project and others as defined in the specs.

Don't expect to have homework.

## Cognitive apprenticeship:

In order to learn a mental skill it's hard to learn because you can't see somebody doing it unlike weaving or carpentry. Your brain is good at mimicking other people's muscle movement. Cognitive apprenticeship is a way where more experienced crafts person can support you.

Our only criteria for a project is that they have an artifact.


----

Feedback:

- Mention the premise: Work in teams. On relevant stretchy goals. Where there is a skill differential. You'll get there.
- Use 'collective' not 'community'
- Repeat the questions, or ask if everybody can hear it
- Set a time container
- Give a chance for staff to chime in, ask us if you missed anything
- Did you intend to not

----

Introduce echo.
Introduce github and craft repo.
- Show contributing.md Encourage people to contributing to it.
- Show people the goals. The templates for the projects you're going to be working on it.
- Go through an anatomy of a goal. Describe description, context, and goals.
- Introduce playbook
- Tell people how to improve the LOS

----

First Tuesday: Standup intro:

- something I learned yesterday
- something I'm doing today
- anything blocking

Do it in the whole group
Invite people to do it in their groups starting the next day

Remind people to track their team members and hold them accountable. Perhaps by asking is anybody missing from your team, do you know where they are? Remember to track them.

Remind people to file bugs/ideas/issues in github repo

-----

First Wednesday: Introduce goal authoring

- Goal templates
- Introduce relevant, stretchy, goals
- Mention drafts and how it goes from draft to normal
- It's important to build the muscle of figuring out which goal you should take on. Our goal selection discussion is designed to do that.

------

## First Friday: Goal formation

### Presentations

- Stats
  - Name the stats
  - Talk about assessment accuracy, and how that's the most important stat their is
  - Talk about how they should maximize stats
  - If you get high stats, you will get a job
- Project reviews
  - Go through what a review looks like
  - Remind people of project artifacts and ask them to set their artifact
  - Reviews need to be real and honest. Garbage IN. Garbage OUT.
  - No collusion.
- 2 minutes per team. Project review right after.

### Setting next goal
- This was all
- This is the pedagogy of learners guild:
  - work on relevant stretchy goals in teams
  - make sure there's a skill differential on the team
  - get great feedback at the end
  - rinse and repeat
- How challenged were you?
- What's your ZPD
  - Comfort, stretch, tear
- Here's how you know this goal is in your ZPD
  - I can't do this by myself. I need support.
  - It slightly scares you
  - It has your full attention
  - You're not actually totally sure that you can hit it
  - Your brain is sore, and you're ready for the weekend
  - It pushes the urgency of your time here because you've taken on something that is really ambitious to complete in the amount of time you have here
  - In the real world you don't do work because someone is breathing down your neck, you do it because there's a lot of work to do. When you're going to bed at night.
  - Flow happens when the edge of our skill is demanded by the task at hand
  - Don't just describe it by inner feelings it's an objective thing
- You should aim to finish all your goals, but if you're really in your ZPD, then in the first few weeks you should fail
- Learning to find your ZPD is a critical skill
- We need your help how to help other people to find this quicker, so when you set a goal that's too ambitious you're helping us
- How could you tell?
- Mohammed Ali: I don't start counting my situps until it starts hurts. That's when your muscles are actually developing.


-----

### Second Monday

- Remind advanced players to weigh in heavily on goals and help people set them up.
- Spend 30 minutes in the morning collaborating on goals.
- Ask people to pitch the projects they want to work on
- Give some feedback on goals and how well they are structured and how stretchy they are
- Give a sense to people about high they should aim: "The projects you finished on the first week with a team in 1 week you should be able to do by ourself in one hour halfway through the program. "

-------


### Third Friday

We want you to get a job, we need numbers that represent wether or not you're on track to do that. If you're not on track to do that, we let you know, and you need to turn it around, or leave.

- If you're going to drop out talk. You have 5 days to make up your mind.
- Things discussed when threshold is crossed:
 - Failure to respond to being below threshold means you get kicked out.  
 - We want to track the action the take in response to feedback.
 - How long do you flounder?
 - How long to recover?
 - What's the turnaround?

Commit message:

some copy changes to support Slack migration

Game_Manual/Moderator_Guide.md, after:

# Moderator Guide

Moderators act as referee and game master; they help ensure proper structure and pacing. In addition, they aid learners in understanding how to play most effectively.

Orienting learners to the systems, structures, and processes of the game is usually done in the first days of gameplay. Use this guide as a script for orientations.

## LOS Overview

1. Intro to purpose of the game
  - Briefing of theoretical basis
  - Connection to collective purpose
1. Gameplay explanation
  - Cycles
  - Goals
  - Projects
  - Roles
  - Stats
1. Succeeding
  - Find dignified livelihood & support others in doing so
  - Stats as a model (and all models are wrong)
  - How to earn stats
1. User interface walkthrough
  - Navigating Slack
  - Navigating the projects / stats UI
  - Navigating the craft repo
  - Using commands
1. Continuous improvement
  - How to submit bug reports
  - How to offer feedback
1. Q&A

## Choosing Goals

1. Define goal
  - Template for project
  - Explain description, context, and specs
1. Goal library walkthrough
1. How to pick a goal
  - Relevancy
  - Challenge
1. Discussion: relevant stretchy goals

## Creating Goals

1. Analyze example goals
  - What characterizes a good goal?
  - Review scope, relevancy, clarity
1. Goal creation walkthrough
  - Using the goal template
  - Following the process in `CONTRIBUTING`
  - Submitting for review
  - Review and publishing process
1. Break into groups of 2/3, each takes a crack at creating a goal
  - Then share and group review one or two
1. Moderator's role in goal curation

## Group Voting
1. Using the `/vote` command
  - Double voting doesn't count
  - Order matters
  - Change your mind as much as you want
1. Go around and pitch which goal you chose and why
  - The point is to inform, not to win/persuade
  - Feel free to vote for goals that you didn't create
  - Clarifying questions after each pitch
  - Pitch limited to 1 minute
1. Learning what to work on next is the ultimate skill
  - Pay attention to how other people choose what they're going to work on next
  - Pay attention to why you're voting for the goals you're voting on
## Forming Projects

1. How a goal becomes a project
  - Assignment algorithm
  - Team formation and makeup
1. What makes a project
  - Source goal
  - Team
  - Artifact
  - Completeness criteria
1. Starting a project
  - Move to channel
  - Create artifact
  - Define specs

## Practicing

1. Daily routine
  - Standups
  - Task breakdown
  - Using cognitive apprenticeship patterns
  - Pairing, soloing, mob programming
1. Always be learning
  - Balancing challenge, support, and progress
  - Refresh of how to earn stats
1. Keep track of (for reflection period)
  - Completeness
  - Relative contribution (yours and others)
  - Team culture and contribution to it (yours and others)
  - How are you supporting others' learning and how are you being supported

## Running a Standup

1. Modified standup format
1. Each person go around and share:
  - What you learned yesterday
  - What you plan on working on today
  - What's blocking or confusing you

## Running a Reflection

1. Purpose of a reflection
  - The learning science behind reflecting
  - Capturing feedback and evaluating work
  - Usually someone else evaluates how well you learned. In this environment, you and your team are doing that evaluation along the way. Locus of authority is within you.
1. Parts of a reflection
  - Retrospective: internal to project, about the process
  - Review: both inter- and intra-project, about the outcome
  - Remind people to update project artifacts
  - No collusion
    - Ruins the data (wisdom of the crowds v.s. tyranny of the persuasive)
    - Bad feedback = Garbage in, Garbage out
    - Don't discuss relative contribution or completeness numbers
1. Retrospective questions
  - Walkthrough of the retro process
  - Question types, what they mean, how they are used
1. Reviewing projects
  - How to measure completeness
1. Invite people to blog/journal for their own personal reflection


---

### Scratch notes from Tanner's first LOS Orientation

- this is a game
- difference between a game and classroom
- you start with zero
- we like games because they emphasize constant feedback
- the more feedback you can get the more you learn
- low consequence environment. it's safe to make mistakes.
- different roles. game board. terrain. stats and scores.
- it's our job to make sure the game runs smoothly. game master.

- as a learner you have two goals
- first goal is to get a job. to learn enough to be able to compete in the market
- second part of the goal is to co-create a learning environment.

in some ways they are in opposition, in other ways they are deeply aligned. it's our intention to create a community where you are constantly sharing knowledge exponentially.

there are two stats:

first is XP. how much experience you have. we measure it by how many projects you complete.

second statistics is support. to what extent are you supporting the rest of your team. focus on both those stats.

week to week what does it look like:

we've broken the game into cycles. similar to quarters in football. 1 cycle is 1 week. Every cycle has same cadence:

At the beginning of the cycle we all propose goals for the weeks. Then we vote on them, then teams form on them, you work on them for the end of the cycle. At the end there's a reflection period and you do two things:

1. Reflect on the team. Harvest all the interpersonal and procedural learning of the week. Also a time for self reflection. Without reflection there's really no learning.

2. Review: Review the code that was produced. The completeness of both your own project and others as defined in the specs.

Don't expect to have homework.

## Cognitive apprenticeship:

In order to learn a mental skill it's hard to learn because you can't see somebody doing it unlike weaving or carpentry. Your brain is good at mimicking other people's muscle movement. Cognitive apprenticeship is a way where more experienced crafts person can support you.

Our only criteria for a project is that they have an artifact.


----

Feedback:

- Mention the premise: Work in teams. On relevant stretchy goals. Where there is a skill differential. You'll get there.
- Use 'collective' not 'community'
- Repeat the questions, or ask if everybody can hear it
- Set a time container
- Give a chance for staff to chime in, ask us if you missed anything
- Did you intend to not

----

Introduce echo and Slack.
Introduce github and craft repo.
- Show contributing.md Encourage people to contributing to it.
- Show people the goals. The templates for the projects you're going to be working on it.
- Go through an anatomy of a goal. Describe description, context, and goals.
- Introduce playbook
- Tell people how to improve the LOS

----

First Tuesday: Standup intro:

- something I learned yesterday
- something I'm doing today
- anything blocking

Do it in the whole group
Invite people to do it in their groups starting the next day

Remind people to track their team members and hold them accountable. Perhaps by asking is anybody missing from your team, do you know where they are? Remember to track them.

Remind people to file bugs/ideas/issues in github repo

-----

First Wednesday: Introduce goal authoring

- Goal templates
- Introduce relevant, stretchy, goals
- Mention drafts and how it goes from draft to normal
- It's important to build the muscle of figuring out which goal you should take on. Our goal selection discussion is designed to do that.

------

## First Friday: Goal formation

### Presentations

- Stats
  - Name the stats
  - Talk about assessment accuracy, and how that's the most important stat their is
  - Talk about how they should maximize stats
  - If you get high stats, you will get a job
- Project reviews
  - Go through what a review looks like
  - Remind people of project artifacts and ask them to set their artifact
  - Reviews need to be real and honest. Garbage IN. Garbage OUT.
  - No collusion.
- 2 minutes per team. Project review right after.

### Setting next goal
- This was all
- This is the pedagogy of learners guild:
  - work on relevant stretchy goals in teams
  - make sure there's a skill differential on the team
  - get great feedback at the end
  - rinse and repeat
- How challenged were you?
- What's your ZPD
  - Comfort, stretch, tear
- Here's how you know this goal is in your ZPD
  - I can't do this by myself. I need support.
  - It slightly scares you
  - It has your full attention
  - You're not actually totally sure that you can hit it
  - Your brain is sore, and you're ready for the weekend
  - It pushes the urgency of your time here because you've taken on something that is really ambitious to complete in the amount of time you have here
  - In the real world you don't do work because someone is breathing down your neck, you do it because there's a lot of work to do. When you're going to bed at night.
  - Flow happens when the edge of our skill is demanded by the task at hand
  - Don't just describe it by inner feelings it's an objective thing
- You should aim to finish all your goals, but if you're really in your ZPD, then in the first few weeks you should fail
- Learning to find your ZPD is a critical skill
- We need your help how to help other people to find this quicker, so when you set a goal that's too ambitious you're helping us
- How could you tell?
- Mohammed Ali: I don't start counting my situps until it starts hurts. That's when your muscles are actually developing.


-----

### Second Monday

- Remind advanced players to weigh in heavily on goals and help people set them up.
- Spend 30 minutes in the morning collaborating on goals.
- Ask people to pitch the projects they want to work on
- Give some feedback on goals and how well they are structured and how stretchy they are
- Give a sense to people about high they should aim: "The projects you finished on the first week with a team in 1 week you should be able to do by ourself in one hour halfway through the program. "

-------


### Third Friday

We want you to get a job, we need numbers that represent wether or not you're on track to do that. If you're not on track to do that, we let you know, and you need to turn it around, or leave.

- If you're going to drop out talk. You have 5 days to make up your mind.
- Things discussed when threshold is crossed:
 - Failure to respond to being below threshold means you get kicked out.  
 - We want to track the action the take in response to feedback.
 - How long do you flounder?
 - How long to recover?
 - What's the turnaround?
