Game_Manual/README.md, before:

# Game Manual

The Learning Operating System (LOS, for short) is a game-enhanced learning environment for engaging in cognitive apprenticeship.

In other words, it's a **game** for **learning** a **craft**.

The primary interface for engaging with the LOS is through [Echo][echo]. Here learners can communicate, collaborate, and [run commands][commands] to interact with the game.

You'll learn a lot about how the game works just by asking questions in Echo and talking with your fellow learners. Use this manual as a reference and a guide to the game.

To get your bearings, read about [Basic Gameplay][basic-gameplay].

We've designed this game to help you learn through cognitive apprenticeship as best as possible. It is by no means a finished product and is currently under active development.

If you notice something that could be better, or you encounter a bug, please log them in the [LOS repo][los-repo]. We want your feedback. Together we can build a more perfect Learning Operating System.

[echo]: ./Echo.md
[commands]: ./Echo.md#commands
[basic-gameplay]: ./Basic_Gameplay.md

[los-repo]: https://github.com/LearnersGuild/los

Commit message:

Reference challenge and cog. app. in game manual

Game_Manual/README.md, after:

# Game Manual

The Learning Operating System (LOS, for short) is a game-enhanced learning environment for engaging in cognitive apprenticeship.

In other words, it's a **game** for **learning** a **craft**.

The primary interface for engaging with the LOS is through [Echo][echo]. Here learners can communicate, collaborate, and [run commands][commands] to interact with the game.

You'll learn a lot about how the game works just by asking questions in Echo and talking with your fellow learners. Use this manual as a reference and a guide to the game.

- To get your bearings, read about [Basic Gameplay][basic-gameplay].
- To learn how to find the right level of challenge for your learning, read [Challenge][challenge].
- To better understand what cognitive apprenticeship is and how to use it, read [Cognitive Apprenticeship][cog-app]

We've designed this game to help you learn through cognitive apprenticeship as best as possible. It is by no means a finished product and is currently under active development.

If you notice something that could be better, or you encounter a bug, please log them in the [LOS repo][los-repo]. We want your feedback. Together we can build a more perfect Learning Operating System.

[echo]: ./Echo.md
[commands]: ./Echo.md#commands
[basic-gameplay]: ./Basic_Gameplay.md
[challenge]: ./Challenge.md
[cog-app]: ./Cognitive_Apprenticeship.md

[los-repo]: https://github.com/LearnersGuild/los
