# Learner Expectations

### _All actively enrolled Learners are required to meet the following expectations:_

#### Learning Expectations

1. **Successfully Pass the New Learner Progress Check: **Every new [Guild Member](https://guide.learnersguild.org/GLOSSARY.html#guild-member) is required to successfully pass a short coding challenge designed to assess how well you are progressing in our learning model during your fourth week at the Guild. We will also check in to see how you're acclimating to the Guild's culture. See the [**New Learner Progress Check **](/General/Membership/new-learner-progress-check.md)section for more information. 
2. **Compliance with Phase Interview Instructions and rules for completion: **Advancing from one phase to another is contingent upon passing a phase interview. There are clear instructions and guidelines that all Guild Members are expected to adhere to in order to preserve the integrity of the interview and give us the clearest window into your progress as a developer. See the 
3. **Be on Purpose: **Your number one purpose at the Guild is to acquire the skills and mindsets that will make you competitive for junior web developer jobs. All Guild Members are expected to stay on track to land a high-paying job as a web developer and to fully participate in the program structure as offered. For example, you are expected to attend daily stand-up, or, if you're in phase 3 you're actively participating in project work, or if your'e in phase 2 you're working on modules and attending lectures. 
4. **Demonstrate a Growth Mindset:** Learning means we’re becoming familiar with, and increasing our mastery over, a topic or skill that was unfamiliar before. Given that, there will be plenty times when you experience not knowing something in the technical or interpersonal arena, making an error, feeling anxious, experiencing some degree of failure, or hear hard feedback. All Learners are expected to respond to challenge and feedback with a growth mindset, that is, a belief that your abilities and intelligence can be changed or improved, and a willingness to grow.

#### Attendance Expectations

1. **Time Commitment: **Show up from **9a to 6p daily**. If you're running late or leaving early, you’re required to alert your house and phase group in the appropriate slack channels. By '_running late or leaving early'_ we mean less than an hour. Anything in excess of an hour requires you to report time off. 
2. **Time Off: **Each Learner has **10 personal days**, and 3 professional development days to use during their 40 weeks. You are required to log all time off with the Guild by emailing [**timeoff@learnersguild.org**](mailto:timeoff@learnersguild.org) as soon as you know you will be out. If you will miss more than an hour of the day you must log a half day \(1-4 hours\), and if you will miss more than four \(4\) hours, you must log a full day. To maintain membership at the Guild you must not exceed 10 personal days, and 3 professional development days.
   1. **No Call, No Show: **Learners who fail to report** **five days of non-participation in the program are in violation of the Attendance Expectations which may result in the immediate termination of their membership. See the [**No Call, No Show** ](//Policies/Time_Commitment.md)section of the Time Commitment Policy for additional information.  
3. **Be Present at all Scheduled Meetings:** There are recurring meetings that all learners are required to attend, plus additional one-off meetings that may be put on your Google calendar, and/or on shared Guild calendars. You are obligated to be present for all scheduled meetings, including but not limited to, onboarding meetings, 1:1 meetings with staff, All-Hands meetings, Daily Standups, Friday Wrap-ups, House Meetings, and COS Workshops. If you're running late to a meeting, you are required to notify the people you are meeting with ahead of time.

#### Community Expectations

1. **Guild Policy Compliance:** We have a handful of Guild-wide policies that are meant to keep us safe, comfortable and promote inclusion. Pretty basic, but essential stuff. You are expected and required to read, understand and comply with all published [**Guild Policies**](//Policies/README.md) and those that may be added in the future. Doing so is a condition for continued membership. You can read all Guild policies below in the [**Guild Policies Section**](/Policies/README.md)**. **
2. **Community Agreements:** The Guild is dedicated to creating an inclusive environment for everyone that facilitates accelerated learning and transformative relationship building. In order to support a diverse community of learners we require all Guild members to abide by our forthcoming **Community Agreements**[^1]** **and** **those that may be added in the future. Check in with your Onboarding Mentor and/or Learning Facilitator if you have any questions. 

[^1]: The [**COS Guide**](https://cos.learnersguild.org) will be updated and integrated into the Learner Guide under the title **"Community Agreements." **Some of the existing "Practices" referenced in the COS Guide will be revised as "Agreements" that anchor our learning community. For now, you may reference the original document to review both current Guild Practices and Agreements. 

