Policies/Holiday_List.md, before:

# Observed Holiday List

<table>
  <tr>
    <td>New Year’s Day</td>
    <td>January 1</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Birthday of Martin Luther King, Jr. </td>
    <td>3rd Monday of January</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>President’s Day</td>
    <td>February 15</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Cesar Chavez Day</td>
    <td>March 31</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Memorial Day</td>
    <td>Last Monday in May</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Independence Day</td>
    <td>July 4</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Labor Day</td>
    <td>First Monday in September</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Indigenous People’s Day</td>
    <td>Second Monday in October</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Veterans Day</td>
    <td>November 11</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Thanksgiving Day and Friday</td>
    <td>Fourth Thursday in November and following Friday</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Christmas Eve</td>
    <td>December 24</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Christmas Day</td>
    <td>December 25</td>
  </tr>
</table>


If a holiday falls on a Saturday, we will observe it on the Friday before. If it falls on a Sunday, it will be observed on the following Monday.

Commit message:

adds two week-long breaks to holiday list

Policies/Holiday_List.md, after:

# Breaks

We take 2 week-long breaks each year for summer and winter holidays.

During these breaks, pods aren't running and we have time to take a breather.

### Holiday Breaks 2016-2020

- 2016-12-26 - 2017-01-01
- 2017-06-26 - 2017-07-02
- 2017-12-25 - 2017-12-31
- 2018-06-25 - 2018-07-01
- 2018-12-24 - 2018-12-30
- 2019-06-24 - 2019-06-30
- 2019-12-23 - 2019-12-29
- 2020-06-22 - 2020-06-28
- 2020-12-21 - 2020-12-27


# Observed Holiday List

In addition to our two breaks, we observe the following national holidays. If a holiday falls on a Saturday, we will observe it on the Friday before. If it falls on a Sunday, it will be observed on the following Monday.

<table>
  <tr>
    <td>New Year’s Day</td>
    <td>January 1</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Birthday of Martin Luther King, Jr. </td>
    <td>3rd Monday of January</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>President’s Day</td>
    <td>February 15</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Cesar Chavez Day</td>
    <td>March 31</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Memorial Day</td>
    <td>Last Monday in May</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Independence Day</td>
    <td>July 4</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Labor Day</td>
    <td>First Monday in September</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Indigenous People’s Day</td>
    <td>Second Monday in October</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Veterans Day</td>
    <td>November 11</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Thanksgiving Day and Friday</td>
    <td>Fourth Thursday in November and following Friday</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Christmas Eve</td>
    <td>December 24</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Christmas Day</td>
    <td>December 25</td>
  </tr>
</table>
