Policies/Oakland_Building.md, before:

# Oakland Building

Please be considerate of fellow guild members, as well as other occupants of the building and neighborhood. Learners Guild leases its space, and we wish to be a good tenant, as well as a considerate member of the Oakland community. We expect learners to observe all building policies, in addition to Learners Guild policies.

Learners Guild is a smoke-free space. Smoking (including vaping) is prohibited within 20 feet of main entrances and exits.

The patio is a public space that is available for our use and for the greater Old Oakland community. Feel free to use it liberally for working, eating, and socializing, and please be welcoming to other community members who wish to use it as well.

## Security & Safety

Our space is accessible with a numeric passcode. You are responsible for maintaining the security of this passcode. Do not share it with anyone outside of Learners Guild. If you have a guest visiting, you must personally let them into the building. Your guests are required to observe and comply with all building and Learners Guild policies. When leaving the building, please make sure to firmly close the door behind you as it tends to not close well on its own, posing a security risk. You may not use the building or the Learners Guild space for purposes other than the Learners Guild program.

_You are responsible for the security of your belongings. We recommend using one of the cubbies to store your things while you are working._

## Hours

The office opens at 7am and closes at 10pm. However, staff will only be on-site from 8:30am to 6pm.

You can arrive as early as 7am, and stay as late as 10pm. If you are the last person to leave, it is your responsibility to close down the space (turn off lights, close blinds, etc.).

## Shared Spaces

### Kitchen

Learners Guild members and staff are welcome to use the shared kitchen. Please be considerate of others with respect to odors, cleanliness and noise. You are responsible for cleaning up after yourself before sitting down to eat so the counter space and preparation utensils are available for others. Please place your used dishes in the dishwasher before returning to your workstation. If you wish to store nonperishable goods in the kitchen you must use a labeled food bin. Labeling your food in the refrigerator is also a good practice. Small snacks are okay to take to your workstation, but please be mindful of keeping spills and crumbs away from keyboards and monitors. Larger meals, like lunch, should be eaten in the East Wing. Feel free to take your laptop with you if you still have work to do.

### Bathrooms

We share bathrooms with other tenants in the building. The ADA accessible bathroom is located on the third floor and is accessible from the Garden Level via elevator. The bathrooms are subject to the building policies.

### Noise

Learners Guild space is an open layout workspace, with several groups engaged in collaborative learning at the same time. Please be mindful of noise levels and our shared "soundscape" when you are interacting with others in your group, as well as when you are working individually. This includes music you may be listening to as you’re working, as well as calls. Whenever possible, please step outside onto the patio to make personal calls.

### Personal Scents

Given the close proximity in which we’ll be working, please be considerate of others with respect to strong personal scents (deodorant, perfume / cologne).

Commit message:

Create time commitment page; update hours
Move all time-related Qs from FAQs to Policies/Time_Commitment

Policies/Oakland_Building.md, after:

# Oakland Building

Please be considerate of fellow guild members, as well as other occupants of the building and neighborhood. Learners Guild leases its space, and we wish to be a good tenant, as well as a considerate member of the Oakland community. We expect learners to observe all building policies, in addition to Learners Guild policies.

Learners Guild is a smoke-free space. Smoking (including vaping) is prohibited within 20 feet of main entrances and exits.

The patio is a public space that is available for our use and for the greater Old Oakland community. Feel free to use it liberally for working, eating, and socializing, and please be welcoming to other community members who wish to use it as well.

## Security & Safety

Our space is accessible with a numeric passcode. You are responsible for maintaining the security of this passcode. Do not share it with anyone outside of Learners Guild. If you have a guest visiting, you must personally let them into the building. Your guests are required to observe and comply with all building and Learners Guild policies. When leaving the building, please make sure to firmly close the door behind you as it tends to not close well on its own, posing a security risk. You may not use the building or the Learners Guild space for purposes other than the Learners Guild program.

_You are responsible for the security of your belongings. We recommend using one of the cubbies to store your things while you are working._

## Hours

The office opens at 7am and closes at 10pm. However, staff will only be on-site from 8:30am to 6pm during weekdays.

Staff will not be available on weekends, but the office is open to those who wish to use it. The same hours apply (7am-10pm).

You can arrive as early as 7am, and stay as late as 10pm. If you are the last person to leave, it is your responsibility to close down the space (turn off lights, close blinds, etc.).

## Shared Spaces

### Kitchen

Learners Guild members and staff are welcome to use the shared kitchen. Please be considerate of others with respect to odors, cleanliness and noise. You are responsible for cleaning up after yourself before sitting down to eat so the counter space and preparation utensils are available for others. Please place your used dishes in the dishwasher before returning to your workstation. If you wish to store nonperishable goods in the kitchen you must use a labeled food bin. Labeling your food in the refrigerator is also a good practice. Small snacks are okay to take to your workstation, but please be mindful of keeping spills and crumbs away from keyboards and monitors. Larger meals, like lunch, should be eaten in the East Wing. Feel free to take your laptop with you if you still have work to do.

### Bathrooms

We share bathrooms with other tenants in the building. The ADA accessible bathroom is located on the third floor and is accessible from the Garden Level via elevator. The bathrooms are subject to the building policies.

### Noise

Learners Guild space is an open layout workspace, with several groups engaged in collaborative learning at the same time. Please be mindful of noise levels and our shared "soundscape" when you are interacting with others in your group, as well as when you are working individually. This includes music you may be listening to as you’re working, as well as calls. Whenever possible, please step outside onto the patio to make personal calls.

### Personal Scents

Given the close proximity in which we’ll be working, please be considerate of others with respect to strong personal scents (deodorant, perfume / cologne).
