Policies/Time_Commitment.md, before:

# Time Commitment

While our ambition is to be able to invest in anyone and everyone who aspires to be a software developer, we are still a long way from being there. For now, we can only invest in learners whose life circumstances afford them the privilege to be able to show up at the office reliably, every weekday (except [national holidays][holiday-list]) from **8:30 AM to 6:00 PM**.

## Personal Days

Life happens to all of us, so we make an allowance of **8 personal days** over the course of the 40 weeks.

You can use personal days at your discretion. Use them for physical/mental health days, emergency errands, major life events (birth/death/weddings) or anything else you think is important enough to warrant your absence.

Personal days are used in increments of half days (4 hours). If you have to miss more than an hour (up to 4 hours), you'd use a half day, anything over 4 hours would be a full day. For example, if you need to leave at 4pm for a doctor's appointment, you'd take half a personal day. If you need to be absent for 6 hours, then you need to take a whole personal day off. If you are absent for more than eight days, there will be Investment Evaluation Meeting with the founder / other investors. Depending on the outcome of this Evaluation, the Guild's investment in you may be paused or cancelled. 

When/if you decide to take a personal day, email [investor@learnersguild.org](mailto:investor@learnersguild.org) with the number of days and date, and let your team and house know on echo.


#### What happens if I show up late? What if I have to leave early?

Your commitment is to show up and build software between 8:30am to 6pm. Anything non-critical to your lives should be scheduled outside these hours. Beyond that, you're free to do whatever you need during these 9.5 hours to _support your team and your project_.

If you are going to be late please notify your teammates, and house. If you are going to be absent for half a day (4 hours) or a full day, please notify your teammates, your house, and email investor@learnersguild.org. Teams hold each other accountable and communicating via houses allows facilitators to know if you're going to miss an event or activity.  

Letting your team, house and investors know when you are unable to be present is part of our integrity agreement to respect each others' and our communal time. If you are late or absent and do not inform your team and chapter, it is a serious matter and is escalated to the moderator by the team.

#### What if I get sick?

Inform your team and/or moderator, and make sure to make up anything you missed. Stay in integrity.

#### Can I stay late and work at the office on weekends?

Yes. You can use the space during [open hours][oak-building-hours]. No staff will be on-site outside of regular hours.

That being said, we strongly recommend that you get rest, exercise, and otherwise take care of yourself! Your mind and body need breaks to sustain the prolonged learning effort.

If you do end up staying late to work on your project, be sure to update your team the next day. Nobody is expected to stay longer than regular hours, so it's on you to make sure that your team is caught up with any extra work you put in.

#### Can I take a leave of absence?

Under extenuating circumstances (e.g. illness, family emergency), learners may be allowed to take a leave of absence from the program. Upon your return, you would likely join the cohort closest to the point in the program when you had to leave. Leaves of absence will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis.

[holiday-list]: ../General/Holiday_List.md
[oak-building-hours]: ../Oakland_Building.md#hours

Commit message:

"home group", "chapter" -> "PSG" in Time_Commitment

Policies/Time_Commitment.md, after:

# Time Commitment

While our ambition is to be able to invest in anyone and everyone who aspires to be a software developer, we are still a long way from being there. For now, we can only invest in learners whose life circumstances afford them the privilege to be able to show up at the office reliably, every weekday (except [national holidays][holiday-list]) from **8:30 AM to 6:00 PM**.

## Personal Days

Life happens to all of us, so we make an allowance of **8 personal days** over the course of the 40 weeks.

You can use personal days at your discretion. Use them for physical/mental health days, emergency errands, major life events (birth/death/weddings) or anything else you think is important enough to warrant your absence.

Personal days are used in increments of half days (4 hours). If you have to miss more than an hour (up to 4 hours), you'd use a half day, anything over 4 hours would be a full day. For example, if you need to leave at 4pm for a doctor's appointment, you'd take half a personal day. If you need to be absent for 6 hours, then you need to take a whole personal day off. If you are absent for more than eight days, there will be Investment Evaluation Meeting with the founder / other investors. Depending on the outcome of this Evaluation, the Guild's investment in you may be paused or cancelled.

When/if you decide to take a personal day, email [investor@learnersguild.org](mailto:investor@learnersguild.org) with the number of days and date, and let your team and house know on echo.


#### What happens if I show up late? What if I have to leave early?

Your commitment is to show up and build software between 8:30am to 6pm. Anything non-critical to your lives should be scheduled outside these hours. Beyond that, you're free to do whatever you need during these 9.5 hours to _support your team and your project_.

If you are going to be late and/or miss a day, you need to let your team know as far in advance as possible. Teams hold each other accountable.

You also need to inform your player support group (via chat) so that facilitators know if you're going to miss an activity or event (e.g. player support group meetings).

Letting your project team and PSG know when you are unable to be present is part of our integrity agreement to respect each others' and our communal time. If you are late or absent and do not inform your team and PSG, it is a serious matter and is escalated to the moderator by the team.

#### What if I get sick?

Inform your team and/or moderator, and make sure to make up anything you missed. Stay in integrity.

#### Can I stay late and work at the office on weekends?

Yes. You can use the space during [open hours][oak-building-hours]. No staff will be on-site outside of regular hours.

That being said, we strongly recommend that you get rest, exercise, and otherwise take care of yourself! Your mind and body need breaks to sustain the prolonged learning effort.

If you do end up staying late to work on your project, be sure to update your team the next day. Nobody is expected to stay longer than regular hours, so it's on you to make sure that your team is caught up with any extra work you put in.

#### Can I take a leave of absence?

Under extenuating circumstances (e.g. illness, family emergency), learners may be allowed to take a leave of absence from the program. Upon your return, you would likely join the cohort closest to the point in the program when you had to leave. Leaves of absence will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis.

[holiday-list]: ../General/Holiday_List.md
[oak-building-hours]: ../Oakland_Building.md#hours
